Hello everybody, welcome to Harmontown at NerdMilts.
Welcome to the stage, the mayor of Harmontown, Dan Harbett.
It's ridiculous that song.
It's called Little Willie. No offense.
I don't know if you had anything you wanted to talk about tonight, but we got a mysterious package delivered to us in the green room.
It appears to be a self-published book by a man named Daniel Quinn called Beyond Civilization, Humanity's Next Great Adventure.
You're all wondering, do I simply have to wrap something in brown paper and send it to the green room in order to have you focus your episode on it.
Read the first couple sentences.
In Beyond Civilization, Daniel Quinn thinks the unthinkable.
We have to assume Daniel Quinn wrote this.
But that doesn't matter.
Everyone comes to a point in their life when...
Is it possible to think the unthinkable?
Thinks the unthinkable.
We all know there's no one right way to build a bicycle.
You're laughing at that because it's specific, but it's true. That's what hooks me in.
We all know there's no one right way to build a bicycle, no one right way to design an automobile, no one right way to make a pair of shoes.
We're convinced that there must be only one right way to live.
And the one we have is it, no matter what.
So the supposition of the book is that you're a pig-headed asshole.
But no, it looks like...
I feel like there's only one way to build a bicycle.
Certainly two tires have to be involved.
Or you've verged into tricycle territory.
And they have to be in a row, otherwise you'd fall right over.
Oh, I just see already now they're... I don't know.
I could see a thing where there's like two tires, like a Segway.
Daniel Quinn, what are you doing here?
Is a Segway a bicycle? It's got two tires.
No.
The inventor of the Segway would have you believe the Segway is not a bicycle.
He would have in his book called Segway Adventures,
he would have you believe that the Segway is a new invention.
Maybe it's just a bicycle.
Right. So whose side are you on here?
Daniel Quinn's.
You like him for being an iconoclast about...
I like him for asking questions, man.
I like him for sending a secret crazy...
Is his book organized by question? Are there more questions?
It's weird.
Will he ask me to rethink other things?
If you paged through it and looked at it, it looked like it was some riddle book from the 80s.
Each page is just like...
I'm looking over your shoulder. The bottom fourth of every page is blank.
Yeah, because each page is just a thought that he had.
Like one page... look.
Show the audience.
And he often refers to some other book that he wrote.
In My Ishmael, that's a book that he wrote,
I recounted the life of a young man named Jeffrey,
loosely based on Paul Eppinger,
whose journal was published by his father under the title of wrestling.
Why is every bottom fourth of every page blank for notes?
Because he finishes his shit, man.
Because he gets his thoughts out.
Or otherwise the book's only like a pamphlet.
Daniel Quinn, if you're out there, thank you for the book.
Thank you for sending it. I opened it.
Give me the book.
Daniel Quinn, please come down undoubtedly from Canada.
I'm 90% certain you're of Canadian.
And defend this. Defend this use of paper.
I'm looking at two pages where there's no more than 80 characters on the entire two pages.
Okay, part two.
Closing in on the process.
Dot, dot, dot.
And I'm going to come at this with an open mind, Dan.
Well, I mean...
I'm not mocking the person.
Well, yeah.
Like when Eminem writes controversial rap lyrics
and they have somebody on CNN read rap lyrics.
Was defaced and abandoned.
The city's ultimate collapse.
Whatever happened, the city was destroyed.
The collapse may have been caused by...
You're making him sound like a jack-off on purpose.
I'm...
It's unthinkable.
To think the impossible think...
One of these days I'm going to write a book and it will be...
Many of the pages will be empty.
I just don't...
Maybe...
How about this?
If every page is going to be equally blank for the bottom fourth or fifth of the page
make a shorter book.
Consolidate it, you're saying.
I'm saying cut the bottom fourth of the book.
Make it a little smaller.
Well, by your logic everything should be on microfiche.
I'm saying...
If I had to flash through this, you could make...
There's certainly room down there to invite a Mad Magazine artist or something.
Yeah.
Certainly there's new levels that could be added.
That's definitely...
I don't know.
Probably not his fault, I think that would go to the publisher.
Right.
The publisher being...
Daniel Quinn...
Wastey McPaperson.
Alright, so we took a dump on some poor kid.
Is he a kid?
I imagine...
I don't think you're 40 and you're doing stuff like that.
I don't know.
Just smacks of a 25-year-old's penetrative lunge into the world.
If I'm being hard on him, it's simply because...
Come on.
Alright, so we hazed the...
You could end one three-line poem and then start a new one
a couple lines beneath that and keep the book...
Did you write a poem in there?
Read it.
Dan?
This is Paige... Who the fuck knows because Paige is our number.
Hey, why Paige knows?
See that?
I could get on board with that.
Yeah.
Paige numbers is just a way to tell the brother he's late.
How many tires should I wear?
Alright.
This is part four toward the new tribalism.
This is a two-and-a-half-line little graffito.
It says,
We are inclined to think of hunters and gatherers as poor because they don't have anything.
Perhaps better to think of them for that reason as free.
Wait, that's attributed to Marshall Solon, so he's just quoting people.
Well, there's stuff he's come upon in his life that he wants to share with you.
Alright.
And you're chastising.
No, I mean, I should write a book.
Alright.
So can we please...
What did we do?
Now we all know what you shouldn't do.
You shouldn't write a book like that.
You shouldn't send it to us.
Again, I say it's more in the publisher.
The format is what's got me.
But I do think it's an interesting idea that we...
Civilizations like bicycles or canopeners or shoes are inventions.
They're systems that we have devised collectively.
They're larger than shoes and canopeners, but they're just little things that we invented.
We've decided at some point that civilizations should resemble...
They should have a certain shape to them.
Because what do you do when your species becomes so successful that it's outbreeding the bears, wolves and cats that used to eat it?
What do you do?
You form a civilization.
You form rules.
You build a big wall.
We can't keep killing each other, gutting each other.
We came up with a very, very thin kind of détente a long time ago.
Like, let's not hurt each other.
Holy shit.
Let's love each other.
Is it the right way?
Do we think of each other in the right way?
If we were to go to the moon, Jeff...
Do you think that people think of each other as people that we shouldn't hurt or use or abuse?
Yeah.
You do.
I mean, I think if you look around at any...
No, we're doing terrible things to each other.
Yeah, at all times.
Yeah.
But I think...
The only reason we stopped moving and we stopped hunting is because we found out that when you start...
We started mastering metals and stone and masonry and things,
and we could insulate ourselves that we didn't have to keep moving around.
We could start making permanent dwellings, and that gave us leisure time.
And that created things like art and created things like textiles and stuff like that.
Also, it created the idea that men treated women like shit forever,
like all kinds of other goodies.
Yes.
Okay.
So there's an interesting, strange irony there,
because it would seem that mankind kind of is very cruel to itself
when we have shit on our plate.
It all seems like there's a human impulse to be inhuman to each other
when we have the excuse that we have so much shit to do.
But at the same time, strangely enough, gender-wise,
it would seem like luxury begets abuses.
Yeah.
Doesn't it seem like the more dessert, the more free time we get,
the more unfair we are to...
I'm sure I'll get it all the way wrong, because I'm only remembering things poorly.
When things were like hunter-gatherer, they tended to be matriarchal and tended to be feminine.
And the moment that we started building permanent dwellings, it became patrilineal.
If I'm going to build a thing, I'm going to pass it down to my male heir,
and then women would get pushed to the periphery.
It's almost like there's two different tracks that we feel on,
because the history of this amazing country, just to look at that as a microcosm of it,
the insanely, poetically, tragically ironic fact that we built this country on slavery,
which couldn't be a more inhuman act, that you take people from a different culture
and you say to them, you are not human to us.
We choose to use you to benefit ourselves,
and we choose not to care about the happiness and health of you and your progeny.
We choose, in fact, to breed you and herd you as if you were animals,
and there's no other way to put it than that.
And that is the true profanity of slavery.
And to build a country on that, and then to come around and go,
oh, you know what, we were wrong about that.
Actually, boy, is anybody feeling nauseous about this?
Yeah, right around the time that industry affords us the opportunity to replace these people with machines,
yes, we all start to feel nauseous about it.
But kicking and screaming.
And then to give those people the vote,
and then also, then after that, sometime after that, to say to women,
you are now also allowed to participate in who's president.
There's all kinds of amazing things when you focus in on the...
The great modern cities, and I know it would include in New York,
but also like Antwerp and Brussels,
and the great cities of Europe were built on treating people like a resource.
People were murdered by the millions to make great cities,
to get rubber, to get gold, to get really basic things.
That's why if you go to Antwerp and it's sexy,
it's because of just slaughter of a thousand people.
And then women got to vote later, which is fucking amazing.
The women that the men who were hurting each other,
men can have epiphanies about inhumanity,
and the entire time they're having those epiphanies,
they can go home to bed with a woman that they are actively oppressing.
We were at the drawing room a couple weeks ago,
and you said you were writing a thing for Vulture magazine or whatever.
I was asking you about your 20 cultural references.
And there are no women on the list.
Yeah, but you've written about the things that informed you,
and I made a joke, it's like no women, huh?
And you're like, oh shit, you're right.
But then you said Elaine...
What's her name?
Elaine Morgan.
Elaine Morgan, which may or may not be a cultural thing,
but it really is.
But what's your stance on how do you perceive femininity as in culture?
It's a pretty male thing.
Our show tends to end up being a lot of dudes on stage,
and occasionally a woman.
That's the thing that I think is so fascinating about it,
is that mankind has it within him,
to a white man can look at another man
who has different cheekbones or different pigmentation,
and he can switch some switch in his head and say,
oh well, I decide to dehumanize this person.
I decide to commit the worst crime you can commit against another human being,
which is to dehumanize them.
I will in fact profit off of that dehumanization.
I will switch off this thing in my head,
I will abuse this person.
Genocide, just like truly the worst crime you can commit.
And then in that sort of male stereotypical sense,
like watching two guys fight at a bar,
where somebody breaks a bottle and they're slashing at each other,
and then they work out something,
and then they end up with their arms around each other,
and then there's some weird elephant in the room where it's like,
but none of you respect your women.
And then gender politics still eludes us, I think.
It's a really weird thing, because no one wants to,
you don't want to hear about it.
It makes you feel more, it's harder to handle than racial politics.
Because racial politics can come down to some platitude about,
you go, oh, well, yeah, I had an epiphany this morning while brushing my teeth.
My friend's darker skin than me.
That doesn't make him less of a person,
but there are barriers you can't get beyond,
and you're thinking about women.
Your mom was a woman.
If you had a wiener and your mom didn't,
there may be shit that you're carrying into your adulthood.
You may be punishing women for shit,
that you don't know that you're doing it.
Like, they've suffered, man.
What is your relationship with women?
They're beautiful.
They're a groovy bunch of chicks.
I don't know, I don't know.
It's totally, totally un...
I proposed to one, yeah.
No, it's totally untapped for me.
I really don't...
It's uncharted territory.
You said...
I just watched the most recent cut of the Harmon Tour documentary,
and you talk about the fact that, like,
communicating with anybody, any stranger,
even your friends, like, it's always a crisis,
communicating with a stranger, extra crisis.
How comfortable are women more strange to you than other men?
You certainly seem to have a relationship with women
that's, like, a little more fearful.
I don't know.
I'm more fearful than what?
Than a nine-foot-tall guy, than a four-foot-tall guy,
than a guy in a wheelchair,
than a guy with a really weird hat on.
Well, yeah, to the extent that, to great balance,
the guy has to be nine feet tall, like...
Well, that's what I'm saying, though.
That's the unexplored question of gender,
because we have this tendency to, simultaneously,
we talk about the human species as if it's just very neatly divided down the middle,
gender-wise, there's men and there's women,
and then we have all of these...
We have it out politically about race,
and about nationality,
but within all of these nations and all of these races,
there's this...
It's almost like the crime is committed and finished
and gotten away with before it's ever called to court,
because let's face it, we all, like, are born into a world
where we're trained to think about men and women as these...
Let's say you're in a writer's room,
and there are your equal number in terms of sharewriters or whatever,
and there's male writers and female writers.
Do you not have an automatic opinion about...
Or let's say there's a female writer in your writer's room.
Do you carry anything into that?
Yeah, if there's one female writer in a room full of 10 male writers,
I am distracted by how distracting things must be for her.
I get distracted by that.
I would like it to be like half men and half women,
and it rarely can be.
So I find myself thinking about the two women,
for instance, season five of Community Red,
two female writers in the writer's room,
and I find myself filtering things through their experience.
Are we getting too abrasive?
I know that female writers are not tender at all.
That's not what I mean.
But what would this look like on an affidavit later?
It bears thinking,
which is why the easiest thing in the world,
or rather the hardest thing to achieve,
but then the easiest thing to maintain,
is half and half represent the species in the writer's room.
So if a single individual male writer has a tendency to
thrust his chest out and get abrasive in his language,
then he's got a proper amount of women to contend with.
There was a thing, I forget what year it was,
somebody told me a story about,
I think there was like a European Cup championship,
like soccer, like football, proper football,
and it was in the Netherlands,
and I forget what countries were playing,
I think it was held in the Netherlands,
and the Dutch police did a genius thing,
because there were two countries that hated each other
and tend to get pretty violent.
The two different countries, like their fans,
got a little hooligan-y,
and all the cops they put out, women.
Out in the streets, all Dutch female police.
As a story, I'm telling like seventh hand,
but no fighting,
because there was just a bunch of women police out there,
and nobody did anything, nobody wanted to fight.
And he was like, he didn't know if it was because
they all wanted a picture with them,
because they were all like,
hey, we're in history.
But you just eliminated the fact that if you added
more guys to that angsty, like wound up
testosterone-y environment,
if you added more guys with more agendas
and more weapons on them,
not going to help, you just put a bunch of women in the mix
and tempers it, because the idea that you have
a thousand guys in the fucking building together
that have agendas is going to be a fucking bummer.
And that was the greatest moment in police force history
of just saying, let's have some femininity out there
and cool everything the fuck out.
Yeah, but you can defend somebody so quick
by talking about that.
The idea that they have a gender identity,
that they put those women out there,
and that that had any kind of effect for any kind of issue.
We do it here, because we'd be afraid that they get punched
or something terrible would happen.
I think they just did it because they had the idea
that it would cool everything down.
I don't know. Look it up, everybody.
It's so interesting to me, because we all know for a fact.
We all know for an absolute fact.
Erin, get out of here. We need some women on stage.
Thank you.
Hello.
I was squirming backstage because the reason why
I initially really fell for you was your...
Dan.
What you said to me regarding how you felt about women
and their...
I said they were...
Thanks.
You said to me that men were so violently opposed to...
Funny men were opposed to funny women,
because they hated women,
because they were so threatened by them,
because women were so dynamic and emotional
and interesting and confident and weird,
and men had a hard time with that.
You weren't making it sound like a guy that just wanted to get laid.
Do you remember that conversation?
Dan said, hey, I think maybe I hate women,
which obviously I was turned off by, but not...
But someone saying, I think I hate women,
but I think I hate them because I love them.
I think I hate them because I want to be them,
because I admire them, because I think they're amazing,
and I am upset by that.
And that was it.
Okay, so gender is obviously the theme of the show tonight,
which I think is important.
Good. Great.
If we go to the moon, it's easy,
not at the risk of offending any of our listeners of color.
Well, and is it gender or is it sex?
I don't... Well, I mean, I don't know.
Dan just made it race somehow.
But race is easy. Race is easy.
Yeah, we've proven that as a country.
Give us 500 years, we'll figure it out.
I know that if you go to the moon
and you want to start a new perfect civilization,
I know that you make the road straight.
You disagree on that. You want a scenic view.
You want it, blah, blah, blah.
On the moon, they're going to tend to be straight.
There's less typography.
I want to do certain logical things.
If I take a group of people to the moon and I start...
Are you saying the roads are going to have to be straight
and aggrid all over the moon?
Don't get too distracted by that.
The big reveal is that Dan and I got engaged,
but Jeff and Dan got married.
I'm just saying that when one fantasizes,
when one expresses their impulse,
and this is a healthy impulse,
everyone in the audience asks yourself,
what would you do if you could start from scratch,
because then you might even actually be able to make
a couple of those things happen down here.
So what would you do about gender?
What is it incumbent upon us?
Because it's very, very easy to talk about race.
Fact, our nation was built on slavery.
Fact, most of the non-Coccozoid Americans,
the African Americans, as we call them,
which I think is a ridiculous phrase,
there's descendants of a practice called slavery,
which is not too long ago,
where we built the entire country on them,
and then we went, okay, we feel bad about this.
Also, it's technologically appropriate.
Now, let's weave this into society.
These are easy facts to deal with,
and you can easily deal with them,
even though you can't easily deal with them
politically and economically,
you can easily deal with them philosophically
by saying such simple, no one can argue with them things,
like, ah, color, who cares?
Easy, easy peasy.
So as far as gender, do you mean?
Gender is not easy.
Right, but are you talking about the way
that the government would address gender,
as far as, like, restrooms and marriage licenses?
I don't know, yeah.
Looking back for a very, very long time,
and what we consider, like, wow, civilization,
it's been gross white dudes controlling shit,
and women have been pushed out
of all fucking conversation at all times,
and the times when I have, like, for instance,
I've been on a television show
where there's been run by all men,
and the men, there were the writers,
and the producers, and the camera,
so you hear arguments, and you hear
a bunch of fucking bullshit all day long.
I've also been on shows where the front line was women,
women were the director's camera,
like, first ADs and stuff like that.
No fucking bullshit.
Communication, they all fucking dealt with stuff.
There was no less problems and no less, like, stakes.
They just managed to deal with it in a much cooler way.
I think you should involve women way more,
and instead of letting a bunch of guys,
like, I run everything because it's gross
and icky and a bunch of fucking cock fighting all the time.
Sure, but that would protest too much.
But...
I protest too much about what?
Well, obviously.
Yeah, I mean...
I'm not a hero for saying that,
it's just ridiculous, the idea that
all of our statues are a bunch of dudes,
and when we ever put a woman on a coin,
it's ironic, like it's fucking hilarious.
Like, we live in a needlessly male world.
It's so stupid.
Right, but we don't, but we don't.
We do, but we...
Okay, but do you actually, like,
is there...
Okay, fantasize in your head.
I'm on a unicorn.
We're landing on the moon tomorrow.
Right.
There's a rocket ship full of 100 people.
That's 40 unicorns.
Let's assume 50 men and 50 women.
Let's assume that we're splitting it down the middle.
Okay.
I don't know if I'm making a mistake assuming that,
but it's 100 people, 50 men, 50 women, biologically.
Should be 51, 40 men.
When...
We are going to set up a school.
We're going to teach children.
We're going to...
There's going to be a new generation
after we land on the moon and we pitch our tents
and we do our thing.
The idea is that the following generation
is going to have a chance of being wiped clean
of all kinds of shit,
because that's all we've been trying to do down here forever.
With our funerals for various words
and our letters to TV guide
and our fucking...
We fantasize about a clean slate.
And there's no better clean slate than a colony.
You just take a select group of people
and you just go, okay.
So what are we going to teach these kids about?
Are we going to outlaw gender projection?
Well, that's my question.
Do you mean like sexually it's 50 men and 50 women
or do you mean gender-wise it's 50 men and 50 women?
Before we even get into that,
I think you're talking about the LA perspective
where it's like our 10 of these people,
people that are men that identify as women and blah, blah, blah.
But I'm saying like, let's just start simple.
When we're teaching them the alphabet,
when we're giving them toys,
are we going to commit to the idea
that children need to be programmed
and are we...
We know how to do that racially.
We know that you just don't make children racist.
We know that you just simply don't program children with racism.
But we don't know yet how to not program children with gender politics.
We don't understand what that means.
I don't understand what that means.
What would you do in a neutral sterile kind of colony?
Would you...
Are there pitfalls that you avoid?
Kids like toys.
What do you...
Do you have to give them gender-neutral toys?
Do kids start to express gender?
I listened to stories on NPR about kids expressing their gender.
When it's in an ironic capacity,
when the kid is like,
we wanted to support him but he wanted to do the thing and blah blah blah,
we don't know what is politically correct right now, do we?
Right, yeah.
I think the real answer,
if we were really going to the moon and we were really figuring this stuff out,
I think that I would...
Which I think is what most parents do is just follow whatever their kids want.
I don't think that my parents...
My parents were great,
but I don't think that they were progressive in any way.
And I know that when I was growing up,
I played with Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
within a Barbie house,
but with no Barbies.
So when were you...
So I think that the real answer,
if we're first sending everyone to the moon and everyone gets a kit
and it's like a bag of Kit Kat bars,
that's a terrible idea.
There's a bag of Weedabix
and cucumbers and tomatoes and eggs.
And then for the kids,
it would just be like a burlap sack that would have matchbox cars,
matchbox cars, but also treasure trolls and dolls.
I mean, it's not...
The real answer is that that's not that big of a deal
because that doesn't mean...
That doesn't identify anyone's sexuality,
like what toys you play with,
but making them available to everyone.
I'm sorry.
Louren Gage, you can't stop it.
I want to bring Camille out.
Let's bring Camille out.
Get his perspective as well.
Camille!
Camille?
We should really be bringing out his Camille's wife, Emily.
She specializes in this stuff, doesn't she?
She's not here, yeah.
She had to drop me off, that sucks.
She does specialize in this stuff.
She thinks about these things for a living, right?
Yeah, she tells me about it, but I don't listen.
We're having fun.
It is...
By the way, was that book you guys reading?
That was Daniel Quinn?
Yeah.
I know who...
You know Daniel Quinn?
I just read one of his books in college
so much.
It's called Ishmael was his book.
He refers to it in that book?
Yeah, no, he's up his own ass.
I don't want to get off topic,
but Ishmael is about this gorilla
that teaches this guy the right way to live
and civilization is fucked up,
and it's basically he's sort of advocating
that we don't help other countries
and just kind of let them
die when they get diseases.
Anyway, that really is...
For real? That's this guy?
See, I didn't like the book based on
format.
I like finding out
that you don't like him for real reasons.
Yeah, there's so much to hate about it.
I thought it was poetry from far away.
Well, it's written...
You look at it and you think, oh, it's sucky.
He comings. He doesn't care about format,
but also he comings had fucking content.
Also, it was
Anthropology 101 and everyone else in the class
was blown away by this book
and how it changed their lives,
and I really, really had such
a visceral negative reaction to it.
There's a chapter in here that says, I eat bets.
I'm just saying.
So Camille, are you and Emily going to have kids
start to pry?
I mean, yeah.
Yeah, I hope so,
unless, you know, one of us...
The rest of that sentence is with us.
Is this a new thing?
Well, you've heard
of these kid partnerships, right?
No.
You find another couple
who you admire.
It's like a key party.
Yeah, it's like a key party.
It's called a womb...
womb blast.
Yeah.
And you just switch babies?
No, no, no, no, no.
We just say to you, so Camille
and Emily, like, you guys are having kids?
Yeah, you have your own kid,
but then after a while, it's our kid.
And our kid is your kid.
It's called a womb blast.
And we have parties,
and we all hang out together.
It's basically like a play date,
but just, like, more official.
No, but I...
Yes, we are, I think,
and if our stuff works,
we will have a kid.
So...
We were talking about
gender politics.
Politics doesn't even
work as a word
for the issue at hand.
What does gender mean?
How much is
gender an artificial construct
in a world where we've started to understand
that race is an artificial construct?
Like, how much do we owe it
to ourselves to think of gender
as an artificial construct?
Maybe I'm just being thick right now.
I don't understand what your hang-up is.
Like gender roles, right?
My hang-up is that in the 1950s,
if you were to take your kid
into the garage
and close the garage door
and train the kid to be racist,
we now know
through the lens of 2014
how to recognize
what you're doing right and wrong with the child.
We can actually,
in a sort of empirical sense,
we can define bad child-breering
to the extent that you're raising
your child to be conscious
of race.
So what's your concern about having a child?
My question is
how now
how does that work with gender?
Emily has friends,
they're a lesbian
and they have a kid
and they are raising the baby gender neutral
and
so the baby is female
and you know the baby has a female name
but what they're doing is there's no
nothing is blue and nothing is pink
and it's not dolls and it's not action figures
so the baby's playing with toys
and a boy or a girl
could play with
but it's hard because they asked
Emily's mom
who's very close to the couple
they asked to give the kid gender neutral stuff
and so the mom bought her
my mother-in-law
and she was trying her best
she bought her
like a flower bow
that was purple instead of pink
and she said purple is like a male color
but this is
this is a key issue
toys are us
you walk into it
aisle 3
aisle 4, aisle 5, aisle 6, aisle 7
they're not, they're based on
ages of children
they're also based on genders of children
I don't know if they've tried
do you, capitalism
so if you're a same sex couple
you're lesbian friends
they're having a kid, they make the decision
we're going to have a gender neutral child
we're not going to fuck with this child
gender-wise
now, they're also in this
larger
colony
yeah, sure
it's impossible to what extent are you
the thing is more about
not saying because the kid
is playing with trucks that they're
gay or straight or male or female
nobody's doing that to a kid
nobody, well maybe some parent
somewhere out there might be going
to play with that truck
I'm sure that's not the right
that's a very straight thing to do
I mean the fact that
it's very invoked to give kids well things
I'm sure there are kids here
I'm sure there are people here who have
young children who
does anyone here have kids
perfect
yeah, that feels right
someone back there has kids
with your hands
as a
nanny in Los Angeles, and maybe this is
different in other places, but it's
very uncool to suggest
to a child
that they should be playing with a certain thing
that kids tend to be attracted to one or the other
but it doesn't mean anything
but I do think it comes from
like you said, the larger society
it's almost impossible to raise a kid completely gender neutral
because as you said, there are these sort of
roles and things and that's just how it is
like
given both things
there's two things
but it's going to be hard even when the kid goes to school
and it's like, oh the boys
are you kidding me?
and the girls play with things that have great shoes
you know
but that is going to happen, I mean we're conditioned
when you're a kid, look at the fucking
commercials for kids toys on TV
like it's all sort of
it's either one or the other and that's really
the thing to do is
if your little girl
is playing with trucks and is talking about
murdering cowboys or whatever
is to not say
you let her murder cowboys
maybe I'm talking about myself
but the thing is to not
like the gender
gender neutral thing is to not say
oh well this child
she's a lesbian, like at four years old
well she's clearly a lesbian, she likes these trucks
she doesn't like these dolls
it's just
about allowing kids to do whatever
because in the
honestly, when a little girl
would play with a truck
that was bad, they would take the truck away
do you take your kid
through Toys R Us
and let the kid
yes, which is not a crazy idea
they get to play with whatever
and that's a good small stuff
so you sort of let the kid be the guide
but we are living
within a dichotomy though
and the kid is being guided
by other stuff other than the parents
that the parents are trying
I remember specifically at some point being like
I'm going to learn to walk more manly
I remember thinking that
and no one told me or made fun of me of the way I walked
but I mean look at me walk
I walk fucking manly now
but I remember that pressure came
and even if nobody tells you
it's all there, it is a dichotomy
Dan and Aaron, you guys are engaged
you're going to be married
probably within the year or so right
are you already thinking about kids
have you talked
yes, yes
is that where this comes from
any part of this conversation or not
no, I don't know why we're talking about gender
the guy gave a book, I don't know
I'm riffed
that guy is not in the crowd
is he the guy who wrote that book
if he was he left
let's say you guys had a kid
and let's say it was
pick it random, guy or girl
guy
how would you approach that
would you have it
I would lovingly
fondle his privates
I would kiss his balls
I'm already doing wrong
what if it's a girl
I would call him King Harmon
as long as she would lovingly fondle her privates too
as long as it's equal
it's called a wraparound
with a baby it's called a wraparound
I have a million questions
I
I would be very happy
if I
was blessed enough that we were able to
conceive a child
what would your first choice be
first choice
let's say on the counter thing
you had to pick
lately
I've been thinking
I'd rather have a girl
because
all I can do is be
ironic
and the
circumcision issue weighs very heavy on me
that's tough
I don't want my son to go through that
or my daughter
we could take our daughter to
Guana and get her circumcised
oh I know some places here
and I feel like same sex children
tend to target
in puberty
they target the same sex parent
I've been reading a lot at Homer
I like the idea of just having a little girl
that's like daddy's little girl
and starts to hate you
when she's 12
and they're like come on take it easy
on your mom she tries hard
it's a little slug out and prom night
no fuck you old man
Dan let's say you had a boy
let's say you had a boy
and it's like he and his
it's time for little league or soccer
yeah fuck you
little satchel
I
would love to have a little boy
I'm absolutely
I'm not
I know that the way karma works
is I will have a kid
and he will be
very into football I know that
but there's nothing wrong with that
it's fine it's fine
I'm psyched about football
I'm psyching myself up about football
for my kids sake
and I swear to God he'll never see a typewriter
he won't be able to read because they don't exist anymore
it'll be a little secret I keep
I felt afraid
on many occasions
of having a girl
yeah you should
they're terrible
now we're getting to it
they're terrifying people
I mean I know this
but they love their dads
not necessarily
shout out to my dad who I love very much
who
very much wants to
perform our wedding
perform at your wedding or perform
no because my dad is a preacher
he wants to
he wants to officiate the wedding
yes and we will not allow him
to officiate the wedding
because he's so great
he's so good
at being a wedding officiant
I've always felt
since I was very young
when my dad would randomly say
well perform your wedding
I've always felt really weird about that
he says perform
yeah you perform a wedding
you perform like a right
hundreds of weddings
alright so hey if you have a kid
but
really quick on this subject
and I'm so sorry
I was a nanny in LA for many years
not a parent
but the gender thing
becomes really
unimportant
in LA when everyone's rich
I'm talking about
we're starting a colony
how do you approach things
logically I'm saying what's the right thing to do
we're all well aware as Adam Goldberg
very succinctly said we're in LA
it's been cool to be gay here for 80 years
like we do live
in a bit of a bubble
progressively speaking
I think the thing is to detach
gender identity from
trucks and dolls and whatever
because everyone is like little kids are
attracted to so many different things
and it doesn't mean any sort of
thing
okay so
the bottom line
is that the kid
you take a
bifurcated approach
you buy a dump truck
and a Barbie doll
and you put them in front of them
or you get also board games
I think
I don't think board games
in my head that was the most gender neutral thing
I could take out
jigsaw puzzles
my brother
and my brother Bill and his wife Jill
they have Bill and Jill
that's unfortunate
ask Jeff
what his mother's name was
Phil
my mother's name was
Betty Ann Larson and she married Dwayne Davis
she became Betty Davis
and it suited her because she was
a grand diva
but my brother
and his wife
my sister-in-law
they raised their daughter
they didn't want to give her princess costumes
before she was too old to choose them
like no overtly
girly stuff
as time has passed
Maddox my niece has just absolutely
on her own
she doesn't watch TV, she doesn't watch any commercials
she has never watched TV
they asked her what do you offer for Christmas
or for your birthday she just turned five
they said what do you want
water
because she doesn't watch
she's not inundated with advertising
practical
that says you should have this ridiculous thing
or this incredibly feminine thing
or male thing or whatever the fuck
but on her own terms
she has started dressing up
like princesses and fairies because she's into that
and that was never put on her
she has just gravitated towards costumes
and what they made for her for her fifth birthday
was a big wardrobe
and they filled it with costumes
gender-neutral, male, female
there's cowboys, cowgirls, princesses
they gave her water
that's not what she was asking for
they listened to her
they gave her latitude
and gradually as she became
she was a very advanced
like she was advanced two year old
she was advanced three and four and five year old
she very clearly made her own decisions
about what she would like to
walk around the house
I bet if we didn't make kids choose
I think, I know
I would have chosen a dress too
they're so much prettier
look at those eyelashes, holy shit
I know right
my mother very clearly
I really feel like my mother was
hoped that I was a girl
because she had two girls in her first marriage
and then she married my dad
and my brother was the first born
and that marriage was a boy
more and when I came along
I really feel like I was supposed to be a girl
so much of my child
was dressed in tights and dancing and doing things like that
and I really feel like I ought to have been a girl
as far as my mom was concerned
I didn't get it out of my system until I came here
and my first three Halloween's I dressed as
a woman, that was my costume
what were the costumes? just women?
just me wearing a gown
I was just a lady
in a frat way?
because there are always frat guys who are dressing as
girls
I felt very pretty
I didn't feel like a frat guy
you have no frat element to you
do you know what I mean?
when I was in high school college
there was a thing where girls
love to put me in women's clothing
they just like to dress
certain friends of theirs up
they always love to put me in women's clothing
I was always totally fine with that
kind of a turn on right?
if it turned on for them
it's fine, it didn't really ever mean anything to me
I didn't do it on my own
but however, I love dressing up as a woman
it's great, it feels fine
like
I just don't see why you would force it on
what the point of putting on a child
that there's an idea that you have to do one way or the other
how does anyone would do it unintentionally?
intentionally
I grew up in Los Angeles
my dad taught me
how to throw a curve ball
and a change up and a slider
and all this stuff and I learned how to do all this manly stuff
also I was dancing
I got so much femininity and so much masculinity
and not in any dogmatic way
on either side
I'm the product
of a very Los Angeles life
I grew up in a theater
because you were doing all those plays and because you were in the King and I
did your dad ever do any sort of
like, hey!
I had friends
when I was three years old
there was a guy that directed the first play I was in
he was very clearly, even to a four-year-old me
I knew that he was a queen
he was a big, fancy, Oscar Wilde
like, awesome
grand theater queer
he was awesome
and he was my mother's friend throughout her entire life
until she died
and he was a part of my life and I grew up in the theater
and there were clearly people that
before I knew what sexuality was
before I'd ever had an erection
all anatomy was
I didn't know that there were people in my life
that weren't the way
I was supposed to be
my parents weren't dogmatic about it
I became the most homophobic person in the world
because of the theater
because my parents weren't homophobic
my parents weren't dogmatic
and I feel like I must have talked about this in the show before
maybe not
I was nine years old
or even younger, I had dressers
and they were the great
late 70s, early 80s queens
and they didn't make out
with each other in front of me
and I asked my hairdresser when I was
nine or ten
your hairdresser would make out in front of you
would you get a terrible haircut?
no, you're getting
made up before a play
so I was on Broadway
I was ten years old and I had a
dresser and a hairdresser
you were on Broadway?
I can't deny
you did not know this
with the Yule Brenner
what is your life?
the king and I was your Brenner
when I was a kid
that's fucking crazy
with the Yule Brenner?
yeah, Camille you've never seen a sexier kid
shit
so I had this dresser named Gordon
he was great and he was
so funny
the costumes were really hard to get
there were tons of hooks and snaps and shit like that
really ridiculous old costumes
and then a guy
that he was kind of dating was his hairdresser
guy that would come in and they were just like
french kiss in front of me and I was ten
and then eleven
and I asked the younger guy who was probably
like in his mid-twenties
so did you know you were gay all the time?
did you always know you were going to be gay?
he goes oh no, I didn't know until I was eighteen
I was like who?
don't say that
say you always knew
because not that I felt like I was ever going to get punched
or beaten or
ostracized if I did grow up to be
like a good
seventy percent of the people in that production
were gay
and sadly and absolutely truly
almost all of them debt
from AIDS
I mean that was a big crazy time
this was the early days of that
what was it, eighties?
yeah, this is 84, 85
and like most of that production
is gone
including I think these guys
this guy told me
I thought I was straight until I was eighteen
I got so homophobic and so worried about that
only because of my
being gay is hard I'm sure
and you wouldn't choose it as a young boy
and I was literally
taking off the pictures mount
to go audition for the king and I
embarrassingly so by my mom
and so when I went home at night
or the last thing I did before I went to bed
was close a magazine and it was a picture of a guy
I would keep looking until there was a picture of a woman
but to the point of like
like mania and if I was watching TV
I would turn the TV off and right
last thing was a guy, fuck turn it back on
and wait until there was a picture of a woman
because if the last image of my mind
was a picture of a man
being straight or gay was this toss
of the coin
maybe that's what that guy did
he turned the TV off when it was a guy
at 18
and he turned gay
as a 10 or 11 year old
that was the world that I thought
we lived in and then one day
when I was 12 years old like laying in bed
I just went like oh
I like women
and went to bed
and never did that again but that wasn't because
anybody told or beat it out of me or whatever
but there was a big point in my life
where I felt like I really have to do come to grips
with the fact that like I might not know this
until I'm much older than I am right now
and that will be okay
but it won't be okay because it's fucking hard
you'll get treating like shit
you'll get pushed around
well this is something that you're able to articulate
at the age of 40
looking back on it
because it's as clean cut as straight
versus gay and that's what I'm talking
about because we're
entering a world now where we're becoming
increasingly conscious of
the pressures of
gender identity
and it's
not as clean cut as
straight or gay with gender identity
you don't know how feminine you're
allowed to be or supposed to be
or how masculine you're allowed to be
or supposed to be this isn't about
straight or gay straight or gay comes down
that's our struggle
to turn gender politics into
something as clean cut as racial politics
because your skin
is brown or your skin is white
and you had
sex with a man and put your mouth
on his penis or you didn't
there are
we have friends of Harmontown
who come up here
who look like dudes
and act like dudes
and identify as women
in their hearts and their minds
and it's incumbent upon us
I'm just curious as a guy
who's thinking about having a kid in this new world
and also as a philosophical thought exercise
I'm asking the question
like it doesn't like
look what goes through the young brain
look what carries through
to the 40 year old adult
about when you felt like
gender was being projected on to you
your sexual roles and stuff
I went to the
in the King and I dressing room
there was the dancers dressing room
there was the women's dressing room for the dancers
the chorus and the men's
and I would say there's probably about 20
and the men's dressing room
there were only a couple straight guys in that
most of the dancers were gay guys
and they always had
kind of ironically and wherever we traveled
we did like 13 cities together
there'd be a there'd be two calendars
next to each other one was a calendar of all like
like hot like firemen and like
like naked dudes and then one of
naked women but it was only
for one or two guys
and it was like it was always like
they did it like out of equality
so I was
I was 10 years old and my friend
my understudy Luke went down
you had an understudy
that's fucking
crazy dude
they wouldn't let us not do the show
that's a whole lot of the story
even when I was sick and I chipped the whole front tooth off
and I lost my voice they would not
let you not go on even though
you wanted your understudy to go do it
you were just so good
they just had this weird climate
of they did not want the understudy to go out there
he was also Camille have you seen
a picture of Jeff as a kid
no I mean I'm scared
is there anybody in the audience
I wouldn't imagine
I wasn't doing the story real quick
I walked in with Luke down there
we were looking at the he and I were both looking at
the only
we weren't exposed to a lot of pictures of naked women
so we saw these calendars it was right next to
like like naked guys and then there was
the naked girls and we're looking at them
there was a dude in the fucking cast
god bless him a Hawaiian guy named
Kaipo who was
just as gay as a day in May
he was so fucking
he would always kind of harangas
he was like hello Jeff I know which calendar
you're really looking at
I was like Kaipo I'm fucking 10
he gave me a fucking
lighter one time he and this dude Stanley
gave me a fucking lighter and they had a lighter cover
like he's a regular big lighter
but it was inserted into a penis
that you could flip the head of the
penis off and open and light
the cigarette and Kaipo was like Jeff
could you get this out I can't get it out
it's stuck and he just sat there and watched
I didn't get the joke I was just
struggling with this fake plastic
penis trying to
and they sat there giggling and
like halfway through I'm like are you mother fuckers
like it was the theater they treat
you like an adult but it was fucking open
season on sexuality there
I feel like for me having
I think having a kid is so scary anyway
I think you do the best you can
I mean it's a job everybody
has wonderful parents right and we
all have problems with them we're all signing up
for a job that no one in history
has ever nailed
no one's ever gotten it exactly right
and we're like yeah we're gonna fucking try
we're gonna be the ones you know it's crazy
it's Christmas shopping at
Target and
walking down the aisles
I was just
I was looking for a catchphrase game because we were
gender neutral toy yeah
gender neutral
and just seeing
because all my friends who have kids are
raising their kids quote-unquote
gender neutral
which I guess just means letting your kid follow
whatever they'd like which I think most
parents do but the
the rows for girls
pink
pink like really pink
and then the rows for boys are black
and blue like they really
feels like you have to choose
between the two
it's so strong I remember always
my life until I was like in my
20s being very obsessed with
seeming masculine and I was like a little
kid I was skinny show us
the walk show us the walk
I don't know
I remember I was like
the key to having a good walk is to
act like you don't give a shit
what your walk looks like so I would
give a shit about having a
walk that looked like I didn't give a shit
do you know how old you were
I was probably 12 or something
when I was 8 I felt like I was too
masculine so I created a laugh
that was more feminine yeah
let's hear it
well have you seen
can you do it? yeah
have you seen the Looney Tunes witch
when she leaves?
I saw that and I thought that was a
height of femininity for some reason
so my
so my laugh
that I created was
really
I remember there was this dude Eugene
who was like the funniest dude
in seventh grade
and then he went away
for the summer and then he came back
and he decided that he was going to be like any
Murphy and he had affected this
laugh
it was so bummed out because Eugene
was so funny
such a nerdy funny dude and then he came back
all sexy drenched in cologne
doing this any Murphy laugh
is there anybody in our audience
and it's fine if the answer is no
let it
let it slide a little we'll bring up Spencer
and we'll continue to have a great evening
but I'm just curious
like
in this Los Angeles audience
is there anybody that can speak from the
surf
of gender
somebody that's had
a discomforting upbringing
like somebody that can talk about
the
you know give us give us more information
than we have
because we've been pontificating about
how you're supposed to raise a kid and what
you're supposed to imprint on them gender-wise
is there anybody out there that
sort of you know went back and forth
or
existed in between
had a weird experience
or
anybody that wants to is willing to come up
and talk about it you're willing
to come up and speak for a little bit
yeah coming up
Sarah
I'm gonna stand I
I've never had like a gender
identity
crisis with myself but I feel like my parents did
like they didn't think I was girly enough
my mom was really upset because I didn't want to wear
makeup and things like that but
this whole conversation I've kind of been
hearing
that it feels
to you like gender neutrality
is something that you have to work
for with a kid and it's sort of like the opposite
of the default which is trucks and dolls
but
the gender system in my
the gender system that we have is just
as much of a construct as
making something gender neutral
it's just like it's it's beyond trucks and dolls
like it manifests like gender neutrality
would also be an artificial construct
but it would be one that gives more choice
because the gender system
we have now takes that choice away
and the problem that I have
with with the gender system we have now is not
just like okay maybe if you let a boy
not know he's a boy or what being
a boy means maybe he'll want to play with guns
and trucks anyway and a lot of little boys do
but it manifests in like everything
in your life like I'm constantly coming up
against this like realization that I don't
think I can do something because I'm a girl
even though I'm fully aware of that
and like just
one example that I can't stop
thinking about is this motherfucker with
his feet on the stage
like that's not something girls do
you think if you did that as a girl you're thinking like somebody
would go hey bitch get your feet off the stage
I think about I think that about
him constantly
he is
way out of line putting his feet on the stage
I would never see a girl do that
no matter how like the holes out
no matter how pink Anatoly shoes are
they're still all over our stage
he's Russian it's a whole different thing
and it feels very phallic
continue please
that's it it's just
it's things like that and you know
just kind of thinking like man why don't I feel
like I can do a thing
because and then it makes
a real difference seeing people that look
like you do stuff you want to do
sorry may I ask how old you are
Sarah Silverman
I'm just going to say it she said don't tell
little girls they can do whatever they want to do
because they would never have
occurred to them that they couldn't
and I think just having to tell girls
that they could be like whatever they want to be
it comes from such a place of
you know where there are certain things that you feel
don't feel comfortable doing
when you say
people that look like you
what does that mean to you
it means gender
it means sex it means race it means everything
and it's a kind of thing we're like
I don't consciously think about it all the time
when I look at a stage and there's only men on it
I don't usually think
oh man it's all men they don't look like me
but then if a woman comes on stage
I feel relieved and I
didn't realize that I was holding my breath
and that's how I feel
where were you raised in
in the Bay Area
and that's pretty progressive
so Sarah do you get
bummed out when
sometimes I just
do you come to the show a lot
oh this is my second time I just moved here
cool
do you ever
cause I feel self conscious about this do you ever feel
bummed out that
when you talk about being a girl
no I'm so glad
alright thanks Sarah
it's just feels
weird to
it would have been really weird if they had this whole discussion
and you didn't come to the stage
what has been glaring really
when you look back on your childhood
do you think about
so you're raised in the Bay Area
by a parent who are
what were they trying to do
to you
were they on a mission
they were just trying to do what they thought was normal
which is what everybody else
is trying to do
but it was like
I remember I always just wanted because I have an older brother
and I just always wanted to do everything you want to do
my parents didn't really put much on me
until you know like puberty
and then they were like
they just thought it was weird that I didn't
hang out with boys
that they didn't see I don't know
because they were like alright you're a kid whatever
play with blocks but
then after a while I began to see
concern with them
and I didn't really understand why
did they ever discourage you from doing anything that was like
gender exclusive
no they just thought I was
autistic
no it wasn't gender
we had a lot of problems but
most of them were not gender related
my mom was very like
I thought I was raising you to be a feminist
I would do things she didn't think she would kind of use
like I thought you were supposed to be a strong woman
I was like I don't know what that means
I think in a way
maybe this is totally wrong
but I feel like for girls
it's a little more weird
because the girl things are so
girly
they're so babies
they're so pink houses
they're so everything whereas boys
there are trucks and there are models
and all these different things
are a little weirder to
but I also do think girls get to have
a little more variance
like a little girl playing with a truck is okay
but a little boy playing with a truck is okay
yeah no you're right
that's totally crap
I feel like the deck is stacked
well I feel like the deck is stacked against
girls a little more
because if a boy
a boy doesn't have to
put on a pink chiffon
dress
bringing it in order to be perceived as being
less masculine
like
a boy gets more
leeway
a boy is allowed to be for instance
smart, a nerd
like I feel like
if a girl like Mary Curie
I feel like if she's
more interested in looking through a microscope
than
her coming out party
I feel like she gets more punished than her male counterpart
that is true
being a guy is
the best
so everything's in our favor
but we're all very familiar with the term
Tom Boy but we don't have the same thing
exactly that's my point
at my niece's
fifth birthday party
in December
she has all these costumes and most of them are
little girl costumes
because they're for her
there were a bunch of other kids
that were there
but one of them
there were boys
so there were four boys there
and there was only one male
outfit to put on so all of the guys
were running around dressed like Cinderella
and princesses and shit
and the thing is
nobody gave it to the parents
there was a moment like
this is the first time anybody's ever seen anything like this
but all the little boys were running around
these four and five year old six year old boys
dressed like Johannes and shit and it was hilarious
and they all like
they didn't give a fuck
because they're playing Cowboys and Nindians
but if you're a little girl
and you go into your brothers
and it's all Cowboys and Nindians stuff
the little girls aren't allowed to dress up
like a cowboy or Nindian
they have to dress up like a damsel
but it was all the parents were running around
just watching
my niece Maddox
enforce that all the boys
princess outfits
and nobody gave a fuck
everybody just like everyone's shoulders relaxed
like okay it's all gonna be alright
because like this isn't as it should be
and it was
nobody was enforcing anything and the boys
didn't lose any credit among each other
or in front of anybody
Emily worked at this facility
and I don't want to say where it was
but it was like one four because she's a therapist
it was for like bad kids
but these were like bad kids
like done a bunch of drugs and stuff
so they were all like sort of very obsessed
with seeming like you know hard and tough
and because it was all just guys there
the kids would end up like
fucking each other
and then they would have these sort of
crises they would come to Emily
be like I think I'm gay and Emily would be like well
not necessarily you might be but also
you just have to get this out
one time she heard
these two kids were snuggling
and they weren't allowed to go home for Christmas
and these two like really
rough and tumble
like 14 year olds and she heard them
whisper one guy said to the other
he's like Merry Christmas baby
and I think that's what
they sort of
it became a safe environment
to kind of do whatever
they wanted to do and not have
to have a label on it you know
and I think that sort of
was weirdly kind of freeing for them
yeah I think
100% right when you say that
it's not cool
for boys to be girly
but
boys are really rewarded for being
funny and goofy and
putting on girls
outfits and whatever else like it's not
like for girls just talking a lot
yeah they were just talking a lot it sounds
like Sarah had the same experience
that I did where
their parents were kind of panicked
over the way that
you were interacting with the world
and
we're worried that like you weren't going to be
I know for sure like my mom
had an actual conversation with me
that was about me not
being pretty enough or like me not
being pretty or losing weight or
etc etc like everyone feels really
panicked when they see a girl playing with trucks
because it's like oh my god like their value
like what is their
which might not be true now
as much especially not in the last year choice
I mean one was the last time you heard a guy
being called Mouthy you know you don't really
hear that but there's these certain
words that are that are sort of
they're so ingrained and they are used
to sort of denigrate
women you know like Emily this will happen
all the time Emily and I host this video game
podcast it's called the indoor kids listen to it it's great
but whenever I
fuck up a video game fact
they say Emily fucked up a video game it
always goes on her every single
time and they also tell her to
relax all the time which like
fucking drives me nuts but that's another
thing like the way Emily is a bitch
she
is a mouthy bitch
no Emily Emily is 100%
that's interesting because they're
you notice there aren't any equivalents
you know how they're out like
you know
racially like you have
the n-word you have
you have the height of profanity
when there's a group
that is not part of the ownership
class and then we joke
about how there's no what are you going to
call us a cracker, honky
those words don't matter
there is no
you can call you can say
bitch you can say the C word
you can say there's like five
words that you can use to
to indicate that a woman
is out of line
and when a guy is really
out of line it's the
same words because you're impugn
their gender
I am the biggest
defender of that
emasculation
when you really
really really
disapprove of a fella
like I find
myself emasculating him
linguistically yes
that they are a C word
that they are a T word
it's the T word
twat
I don't think it's common enough
that you could just say T word
and we know what you're talking about
I thought it was titty
titty face
there's not a lot to it
what do you do
from there you get into homophobia
you could call a guy a cocksucker
so then Dan what does that mean
when you say that to a woman
what does that mean
you're dehumanizing them
if you call a woman a C word
and if you call a guy the C word
you're making him like a woman
which is the worst thing you can say
they just say it all the time
stop being a
anyways
you're probably uncomfortable standing up here
can I say something
of course please
you've heard it
I promised my friend Eric that if I got up
and got to talk I would talk about him
it loves you
his name is Eric Krasner
he's going to listen to the podcast
he's going to be so psyched
he's one of my best friends
sounds like a queer
thank you Sarah
thank you Eric
I'm the worst
what was her name
where did she go
is it with a Z
Sarah
where are your parents from some other place
I don't know how else
to put it
it's Sarah not Sarah
you're Irani okay
your parents got away from the Islamic
revolution
nice
did you speak Farsi
did you grow up here
we made you sit down
then we started interviewing again
how sex is that
sit down
we're talking from a distance
it's not a good show
by applause
how many girls here had a similar
experience where their
parents were weird about their
humble applause
our parents did that to us
I'm sure
a bunch of the guys here
I'm not
I'm going to dismiss it
that's a thing gender politics
what is it
once you invite Hasbro
and Mattel
into
and
they only mean
well
they're not going to try
they don't mean well
Mattel does not mean well
I could argue
that they do
mean well
when you entrust a system like capitalism
into something organic
like your gender identity
you can guarantee
one thing
Parker Brothers
and Mattel
and these companies
they're definitely going to go where the heat is
they have no interest
in informing
your gender identity
based on some glass ceiling
they want to maintain
they want to make money
and if they think that little boys like
to shoot things and make them bleed
they're going to
become part of a cycle
that makes little boys
feel like they want to make things
bleed
but I also think that if when you're a kid
like labeling yourself
is sort of a powerful thing
you're figuring out your identity
and it is easier
straight male, I'm a manly male
I like sports, you know what I mean
it's much harder when it's fluid
so I know that that's a good goal to have
but for kids that can be a little
it's a little more challenging
yeah, that's what I'm saying
like you don't look to your fucking
Saturday morning cartoon
you don't even look to your god damn parents
I'm sorry
like they're
awash in this shit
like
everyone's confused
and if you
look to who came before you
for what you should do
on your 13th birthday
and what you should wear and what you should be playing with
what you should be doing
you might get a little bit of truth
but you're probably going to get a lot of
misinformation
and parents
parents' responsibility
is to do the best they can
I guess
within this maelstrom
to make sure that there's
a smorgasbord
there's also a likelihood
not because it's a right or wrong way to do it
it's just because
everybody got it wrong
nobody's got it
no one's ever been convicted of being the world's perfect parent
you could try
so hard to make things
gender-neutral that you
absolutely create more confusion than there needs to be
yeah, you can fuck your kid up that way too
holy crap
as somebody who was a nanny in LA working with kids
who grew up with a lot of money
there's the oppression
of gender-neutral
I've told the story a thousand times
this is such a classic story
me being a kid growing up in the 70s
my mom sitting down with me
I was playing with
the Sesame Street
figures
and Sesame Street was already
it was a
multi-racial environment
so there were these little figures that were different colors
and my mom
I remember my mom saying
can you tell me the difference between this guy
and this guy
and I went
guy who's got a hat on
that guy doesn't have a hat on and she's like
really that's the only difference
and I said yeah
well the shirt's different
and my mom
I remember her going
this guy is so
great
that you
don't see the difference between them
because the real difference is that this guy's black
and this guy's
white
and you are part of a new generation
that will not perceive race
until otherwise
notified
this is exactly your origin story
by the way
this is the same mom
came and sat on the foot of my bed
because
there was a miniseries on tv
and I remember her coming into my room
and waking me up and sitting on the foot of my bed
and saying
I'm waking you up
and telling you
there is going to come a day
when people tell you
that something called the holocaust
never happened
it did happen
it happened
they tried to kill all the Jews
I don't care
who says
what evidence they present you
the most well meaning
how can you get
more progressive than that
that story is so funny
because it sounds like it just occurred to her
it did
because my mother
realized things when the television
said that
that's why I'm here
hahaha
because I am like
an apocalyptic
I've climbed up
to the top of the pyramid
the thing that told my mom what to think
on Wednesday
I would say god damn it
I don't want to wash the dishes and she'd slap me
and say you don't say god damn it
no one says god damn it
that's usually the Lord's name in vain
Thursday night Johnny Carson
god damn it this fucking
here
but mom I gotta
well Johnny Carson said it so fuck it
I gotta
get out to where this world
makes this television
I am going to control people's thoughts
I am going to become
a real person
well you had to get out to television where it was fine
because you were on television
because it's where you make dumb people
think
period
everybody
really quick
I got a new chair
that's what we're talking about now
paradigm shift
it's not folding
I don't like it
it's not folding you don't like this one
I don't know about it
are you afraid of change?
there's a pillow on it
there's a pillow on your chair
there was
are you saying
are you implying that my butt ate the pillow
what are you saying
no I wasn't having none of that
Spencer would you agree that
the key to gender neutrality
is not attributing anything
to male or female
I mean labels are important to humanity
but you can't
stay stuck on the labels because they're only as useful
as defining the actual thing which is important
what was your favorite toy as a child
that's a really brave stance by the way
the key to gender neutrality is
to not
imprint any gender on anybody
oh really
I had been operating
under the age old
idea that the key to
gender neutrality was to imprint male
gender on everything
I don't think I articulated
what I meant very well
what I meant was that
as far as gender neutrality goes
we say like oh we'll play with a truck
because that's a boy thing or play with a
Barbie house because that's a girl thing
it's just like not
Jeff's walking across the stage
what's happening? oh let me go get my character
sheets out
no but you're right
it turns out the key to gender neutrality
is to not
pay attention to gender who would have thought
what?
I feel like
we spent an hour and a half not getting to the
bottom of this at all
what did you think we would get to the bottom of this
in an hour and a half that would be like on CNN
front page tomorrow
Harmontown figures out
the gender problem
you see what I mean like I think
a lesser minded person would approach
gender neutrality by saying like
here's a boy thing here's a girl thing
as opposed to like not
getting beyond like things being boy
or girl things like trucks aren't
necessarily boy things and
houses aren't necessarily
I'm killing myself after that
I get what you're saying I just
don't know what I can do from here at this point
20 minutes from here
Spencer what was your favorite
toy as a
as a young Spencer
Legos I mean I don't know
you'd like the dick butt right
yeah the dick butt
for me it was Legos and Star Wars
action figures and that's all I needed
that's about building your own universe
boys toys are cooler than
girls toys
well that's the thing is like
it's all about options like
why don't women have powers because their
options are limited
well that's what powers is
having options powers
being able to choose your options right
if you only have pink toys
if you only have the ability to choose pink
toys you're being limited boys
boys toys don't have
a color like you said earlier they're blue or black
they're not they're every color
you know pink toys are like girls toys
so it's just about options
it's not about saying
one's better than the other boys toys
have changed and girls toys
are still Barbies yeah they really haven't
changed much it's all about like emulating
a house life
yeah right from the girls in the audience
was anyone else jealous of
boys toys
because yeah there was more
there's more types like more options
I was jealous of your girls toys
yeah I was jealous of my nieces toys
their toys had like
because there was an option that I wasn't exposed to
I just like that
like wait you have little ponies
with hair like my action figures don't have
hair I left strawberry shortcake
fucking strawberry they smell great
fucking purple pie man
and fucking yeah
my friend Chris and I
yeah his older sister had
strawberry shortcake and we would
we went into her
bedroom and you sniff on them
and we would sniff em
they were great
we had a pageant
we had a strawberry shortcake pageant
and he had a whole room
full of Star Wars and G.I. Joe stuff
and like
we were having a beauty pageant
in his sister's bedroom with
strawberry shortcake girls
strawberry shortcake yep
she smelled the best
oh it was a
what about the little pillow
the pillow-kissing thing you had
with you with a
ramstack there's no toys involved in that
when I was on the fucking road
I was like a fucking 11 years old
not you know very prepubescent
and there was my the guy that played the
prince there's two male
kid lead characters
and the king and I there's the prince
who's the son of the king and Louis the son
of the teacher it was me
and Doug Clef
who was 13 he was going through puberty
and he uh he
jerked off in front of us just to show us that
things came out like
just to show us that
things came out
that's cool
he was like he was like guys
you're a year and a half younger than me
watch this
and we said that
and it wasn't like oh come on man
we didn't know what the fucking point was
it was like watching somebody make the world's best
chicken salad sandwich
like oh I didn't know the recipe for that
I didn't know that
what was he looking at was he making eye contact
with you
what was he doing what was going on
he struck your dick it gets bigger
also for my money the guy's dick
was as big as a thermos
I had a little
11 year old dick and this guy had a dick
like fucking some sort of like wow
and
and then he jerked off and a little
drop of white shit came out of it we were like
fucking interesting interesting
and then he turned like later on
we traveled with seven kids
there were four guys
and three girls had traveled with the show
with the girls you also showed the girls
we were talking to the three girls
afterwards like you know there's a Douglas over here
he can touch his
ding-a-lingy thingy and
a little bit of white stuff emerges from it
like magic
and he changed the girls in a very conspiratorial
tone
and says Kathy event
and these girls are
girls you guys have the equivalent
for girls and they're like
we have our thing
and they're like yeah yeah we have our thing
and me and Luke
and the other fucking guys are like what is the thing
what happens
like your vagina
becomes open
it blooms like a flower
going back in time
they were talking about the girls get wet
they had cracked this mysterious code
and it was secret
because they were a year and a half older than us
there was nothing weird about the fact that the Douglas
just took us to the bathroom and showed us
what cum looked like
I remember in kindergarten
I got all the kids together
and was like hey I have something to show you
and then I just showed everyone my penis
and then
I was like hey you guys
check this out
and I was, I had it out
and ultimately did everyone get a good look
and then they brought my mom in
that was the whole thing
do you remember what motivated you
were you like oh my god I have this thing
I remember just being like
oh they haven't seen this
what was the reaction
I think, I don't remember
I remember it being
aww, but I'm sure it wasn't that
you remember it was a what
aww, aww
awstruck
it sounds like Monday morning quarterback
I showed everyone
I'm sure I told the story on the harm attempt
before when I was like 4 or 5
and I took a bath with my niece who was 2 years younger
than me because I was half
6 or even way older
and I saw the difference like plumbing
and I emerged into one of my parents fancy pants
older cocktail parties
and I just walked out and said ladies and gentlemen
I have an announcement to make
I thought I was laying down some timeless
wisdom and I said boys
have wee-wees
girls have crack-wees
and I left the room
to applause
and I took it as I fucking blew their mind
the applause was holy shit
that was fucking amazing
and your mom said there's an audition coming up
for the king and I
crack-wees
crack-wees and I stand by that
assertion you guys
my friend was telling me that his friend's kid
who was 5 she just learned to masturbate
like she was scratching herself and she was like
oh this feels good so she would do it in front
of like company and stuff
she would just like whack off this 5 year old girl
and they were like
they were like why do you do this
she's like it feels good they're like when do you stop
and she said I stop when I see the flowers
this little 5 year old was fucking
I think The Rolling Stones wrote a song about that
alright
Spencer if you would let's take us through some
some fantastic engineering
okay
keep it to 13 minutes will ya
yeah
yeah I will
what's happening
last time on Harmontown
the gang was feeling pretty empty
after their victory against
Admiral Darkstar
maybe it was the fact that the shards of power
were still in the wrong hands
maybe it was because Christopher
kept barfing everywhere and cut off his penis
all
was not well
they encountered their friend Morris Goldbright
who made a cameo appearance
noticing Christopher's strange behavior
and a stranger stone that Chris
had dropped from his hand
the stone burst and at the same time
Admiral Darkstar's castle
crumbled into a hole in the frozen earth
this enraged the rogue
and caused him to attack Quark
was having none of that however
and threw Christopher
severed member into the ice hole
in response, Chris possessed by ghoulish
strength hurled Quark down into the ice
hole himself
Sharpie left into action and teleported to Quark
carrying them down safely
with his feather fall
but down where and down why
we'll find out
down to why
so
right now Sharpie and I are falling down into a
down where
you got me
who's got you
yeah
so yeah you guys are floating
for quite a while
and you float
kind of floating diagonally just because that's
how momentum works
and you see the crumbled
ruins of
the statue
of the castle that's fallen through the ice hole
there's this whole new layer
of ground it looks like it's maybe
700 feet below
you know the surface
of the earth before so you guys are
down that far and there's a
new ground this ground looks gray
and cracked like dust
like gray and cracked dust
and you see this
crumbled destroyed statue
on it looks like
it's covering or it's falling upon
like a giant pile of bones
like maybe a woolly
mammoth sort of thing
but woolly bones mammoth
can Sharpie and I feather fall upon
that and land safely
well yeah you're falling and you're on this
cracked gray ground
that's where you are
you guys are above
hundreds of feet above us
in this out of this hole
can you guys see my dick
so we landed
on bones that are
on the side of a pit
or the bottom
when you're landing it's pretty dark the only thing
you can see other than this great massive
expanse of like undergroundness
that you didn't know about
is this just giant crumbled castle
looks like it's on a heap of bones like
a landed on a heap of bones that's all you can see
we landed on a heap of bones
alright
what you're telling me
well I mean the castle did you're next to it
you're kind of looking at it
or next to a castle that landed on a heap of bones
like a woolly bones mammoth you said
yep
may have said that
Chris is it just me or do they seem pretty casual
about
about falling on these bones
we're hundreds of feet above
um
I pick her up and I toss her down
yeah
yeah that happens
do I follow like a feather
I mean no
I'm sorry
that's yeah that's gonna hurt
oh boy
alright
levitate levitate I have a spell called levitate
can I cast that on a person
let's
I'm gonna not look it up right the second and say yes
can I target her
if I hear her screaming
that's what I'm not looking at
as Mulraine plummets
to what is almost certainly her doom
she gets within maybe
40 feet of the ground before
being slowed and propelled by this
levitating force that gently
drifts you down
to the earth
you kind of stop like a foot or so above it
going down
I'm sorry
first floor
awesomeness
thank you so much
well now it happens
can I if I jump down
will you guys levitate me too
listen
I know I've done a lot of bad shit recently
but I think
like throwing the previous person down
but I'm feeling better
I don't know how many times
I have levitate charged
I can shoot an arrow at you
I don't know if that's gonna help
no I don't I don't think it will
it could break your fall maybe
the arrow if he shoots it up it'll like
it'll slow me down
while killing me
I could craft something
well that's true
I would like to
cast
some form of
light spell
okay
you know the one I'm talking about
light maybe
I cast it on
my thumb
casting light upon your thumb
you hold it aloft to get a better view
and what you can see is
a skinny
a skinny figure
approaching you
he looks real skinny
he looks like a skeleton
kind of guy
he's approaching and his hands are like this
and you can see they're glowing orange
like this
orange hands
identify yourself
he hisses in a language you don't really understand
it's not common
is it parcel tongue
yeah
you don't know parcel tongue
so you wouldn't be able to tell
is he a skeleton?
yeah he's a skeleton
relationships with skeletons
I mean sometimes elves look like
skeletons
he's uh no no his hands
don't look too hostile I mean they're glowing
I guess
I look up to him
and introduce myself I said how do you do
sir my name is quirk
I'm a barbarian and we could use your help
right now we're in the middle of a
real predicament he's like
he stares at you
with his cold blue icy gaze
and he says
what is your name what is your name
quirk
quirk well met sir
you've come down here which means you're in a
desperate place you got that right jack
yeah
what are your compatriots
names does it really matter
asking what his name is
you're seven hundred feet away right now
what I can't hear you seven hundred feet away
I feel bad
okay I'm sorry
what's your name in flames
we're moraine and sharpie
what's your name jackson
I am lenev the rebel I come from
tormod tor the city of unshackled
dead
shit
lenev
how come your hands are glowing
oh they just yeah
that's just
that's just who I am
are the shackles death
the shackles aren't death
death is the mortal coil
the necromancers
you see they shackle our souls
to our bones and force us
into labor but if we can throw off those
shackles we gain something better than
immortality
what
you see I'm not bound
to any necromancer
or dark forces I simply exist
until I stop
are you bound to any gender identity
are you bound to logic
I can't understand what the fuck you're saying
I'm so drunk
I'm sorry about that
I wish I could have prevented that
or done something to help
no I'm not gonna do that
what is he saying
he's saying he's immortal
you're 700 feet away
I puke
acid into the
hole in his general direction
you hear drops as
vomit rains down from above and splashes
into the dusty grounds
I'm sorry about my friend
what's your name
lenev
the rebel
lenev the rebel
I don't get it
well it's just you know
a lot of people who have been characterized
as rebels aren't named
lenev
that's what's so rebellious
were you raised a boy
or a girl
a corpse
that's as neutral as it gets baby
bonjour lenev
how's it going
how do we get out of here
out of here like up
I can't fly
maybe not necessarily up but how do we
get out and why are you talking to us
oh you just fell down here
actually
I was sent out here
for my duties for Tormod
you see our crafts market
has been just destroyed
by
there's a castle that fell through
the ceiling
and it just crushed it
it killed like 200 of our finest craftsmen
but there was a crafts market
and not like dead like I'm dead
like like dead
dead like double
like double un-mortal
not like cool glowing hands
skeleton like like done
dead
that's why I'm here
I jump down into the well
and I yell save me
shit god damn it
I'm coming
I'll try and levitate on him
yeah you got some more of those
thank god
you hit the ground
just a bit
you're fine though
who's this fucker
I am Lenev the rebel
I come from Tormod tour
the city of unshackled dead
you have the touch of death about you sir
uh oh
oh shit if you look like shit
I pull Lenev the rebel
aside and go look Lenev I just met you
and I've known this guy Christopher
a long time but he's been acting really strange
can you can you help us out with this
we have some sort of ghastly
or spectral or evil presence
lurking about corrupting his soul
and his mind
do you have any advice
you're gonna need to quiet
there's this rare plant
it only grows some places
I don't even know where
because we don't like plants too much
but
I know what it's called
it's called the tarragon of virtue
the tarragon
the tarragon of virtue
anyone who eats the tarragon
of virtues their soul will be
cleansed and they'll be purified
alright guys can we make
this part of I'm sorry I know
I've been a real shit can this
part of the quest be like
that we find the tarragon of virtue for me
it doesn't have to be the main thing
it could be like a sub quest
it could be like a side quest
with my craft supplies I construct
a muzzle
that's some impressive crafting you got there
thank you
I offer it to Chris
what am I gonna do with this
I think you should put this on
alright at the show of good faith
thank you that's what it's for
it's a symbol
I shoot her with my laser beam
oh shit
it hits
you deal six laser damage
holy smokes
alright
it's not feeling good
it's whoever's turn whoever wants to do a thing
I take my speedy long bow
I'm so sorry I don't deserve to die
I don't think you're sorry
I am my soul is corrupted
I have the touch of death about me you heard
Lenev the rebel
let's find the tarragon
of virtue for pity's sake
Lenev
the rebel is there an exit we can get out
I can take you to a bone sage
maybe they can help you
what over are people
attacking or other people
I don't care about that
I take my speedy long bow and I fire
two arrows at Christopher
at his legs
this isn't constructive
it might not be
but you take seven damage
okay
that's in the legs
I use my arm
armlet of spring
thing
I ensnare
Christopher
yeah that happens
I get it guys
we're gonna cool this shit out
I'm so sorry I don't know what is going on
I mean
do you see yourself pushing people down
holes and things
after I do it
soon as I do it I'm like oh this is happening
I look for an exit behind Lenev
where he came tortoise
even with your dark slash little light vision
you can't see anything
it's all blackness
he's like I can take you to
Tormat tour
that's all I got
is that where the bone sage is?
maybe we should go to Tormat tour
you guys stop fighting for a little while
I'm sorry
no he can't be trusted
well I take the muzzle
and I peel it down
and it traps his arms as well
because I did that before
he's also entangled
he's all wrapped up
you're no threat right now kumail
he's entangled by me
who is kumail
oh nice
alright
I'm sorry just guys carry me
I'll carry you
I take
I say look we're going to carry you
to the bone sage of Tormat
Tormat tour you
how are we going to carry him
I'll carry him I'm a barbarian
are we going to tie him up
he's wearing a muzzle
I steered him with
I carry him
like
at the end of Officer and a Gentleman
and I carry him out
I gave him a rope muzzle
that covers his face and his hands
he can't bite
and I look at Kristen Bergen
and I say look
I'm going to carry you to the bone sage
no funny business
no
no there will be no funny business
or no there will be funny business
you heard me
I leaned down
and I just started making out with him
I was holding him like a baby
and I did like the P.A. Todd
and I just started French kissing him
I puked into his mouth
I puked back on his mouth
I achieve erection
I am in awe of his erection
then I puked on him
and I go
can we fucking get to the bone sage
or are we going to keep puking on each other the whole way
no I'm good
he doesn't have a dick
oh I have no dick
off to the side
I saw my penis get around
thank you for coming to Harmontown everybody
that's our show
holy moly
we're going to start playing D&D a little earlier in the show I think
thank you everybody
thank you Sarah for coming up
thank you Erin McGathy
come down on Gianni
I'm Jeff Davis
special credit day one more time for Dan Harmon
your mayor everybody
thank you
I hope you all learned a little something about
Daniel Quinn
I hope you all learned a little bit about your gender tonight